NGINX Ingress with Istio Service Mesh document (#2768)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/tutorials/nginx-ingress-istio.md

---
title: NGINX Ingress Controller and Istio Service Mesh
description: |
  Use NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio Service Mesh.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-889"
---

## Using NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio service mesh    

NGINX Ingress Controller can now be used as the ingress controller for applications that are running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX IC provides on Istio-based environments without resorting to any workarounds.
This is accomplished using the special setting [use-cluster-ip](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources/#upstream) for the backend.

Here is a standard deployment of NGINX Ingress controller without a sidecar proxy injected into the pod.    

{{< img src="./img/nginx_plain.png" alt="NGINX stand alone." >}}

> 

Reviewer: Notice that NGINX Ingress Controller is enumerating the pods of the backend service and balancing traffic directly to them, granting you full control of backend loadbalancer and stickyness behavior.
If your service pods supported TLS, then NIC could re-encrypt the traffic to them and provide end-to-end encryption.

But then if your services could do that, you might no be implementing a Service Mesh.

To begin, Istio needs to be installed into your cluster.

## Install Istio

Link to Istio install guide:    
[Installing istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/)    

It is very important to make sure you install Istio **BEFORE**, you install NGINX Ingress Controller. This is to ensure that the istio sidecar is properly injected into the NGINX Ingress controller pod.

You can then install Istio by your preferred method (helm, operator etc.). Deploy Istio into your cluster. In this case, I ran the following command to install Istio into my cluster:

```
istioctl install --set profile=minimal
```

We need to make sure that Istio injects sidecar proxies into our namespace for our testing. To do so, we need to tell Istio what namespaces to inject sidecars into. We can do that with the following command:
```
kubectl label ns <namespace_specified> istio-injection=enabled

> ```

Reviewer: Before proceeding, you should deploy NGINX Ingress Controller.
If you have not done so already go <here> and follow steps 1 - x to get NGINX Ingress Controller installed and running.

Now that Istio is installed and prepared, and NGINX Ingress controller is deployed - the next step is to enable Istio sidecar injection for the NIC pods, to capture traffic egressing from NIC to the backend service(s).

---
title: NGINX Ingress Controller and Istio Service Mesh
description: |
  Use NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio Service Mesh.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-889"
---

> ## This document is compatible with NGINX Ingress Controller 1.11 and later.    

Reviewer: This should not be a headline - it should be a note.

>  NGINX Ingress Controller 1.11 release supports the ability to configure NGINX Ingress CRDs (virtualServer/virtualServerRoute)to use the `service/cluster IP`. To enable NGINX Ingress to route to the `service IP`, we are going to use [use-cluster-ip](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources/#upstream).   

Reviewer: Add the following: 
NGINX Ingress Controller can now be used as the ingress controller for applications that are running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX IC provides on Istio-based environments without resorting to any workarounds. 
This is accomplished using the special setting 'use-cluster-ip' for the backend.

Remove line 13 - 15.

Author: done

---
title: NGINX Ingress Controller and Istio Service Mesh
description: |
  Use NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio Service Mesh.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-889"
---

## Using NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio service mesh    

> NGINX Ingress Controller can now be used as the ingress controller for applications that are running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX IC provides on Istio-based environments without resorting to any workarounds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller can now be used as the ingress controller for applications running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows you to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX IC provides on Istio-based environments without resorting to any workarounds.
```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller can now be used as the ingress controller for applications that are running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX IC provides on Istio-based environments without resorting to any workarounds.

```
```

This is accomplished using the special setting [use-cluster-ip](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources/#upstream) for the backend.

> Here is a standard deployment of NGINX Ingress controller without a sidecar proxy injected into the pod.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a standard deployment of NGINX Ingress Controller without a sidecar proxy injected into the pod.    
```

{{< img src="./img/nginx_plain.png" alt="NGINX stand alone." >}}   

> Notice that NGINX Ingress Controller is enumerating the pods of the backend service and balancing traffic directly to them, granting you full control of backend loadbalancer and stickyness behavior.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that NGINX Ingress Controller enumerates the pods of the backend service and balances traffic directly to them, granting full control of the backend load balancer and stickiness behavior. 
```

> If your service pods supported TLS, then NIC could re-encrypt the traffic to them and provide end-to-end encryption.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your service pods support TLS, then NIC can re-encrypt the traffic to them and provide end-to-end encryption.   
```

But then if your services could do that, you might no be implementing a Service Mesh.   

> To begin, Istio needs to be installed into your cluster.   

Reviewer 2: Do we install "into" a cluster or "on" a cluster?

Author: I think either should suffice.

## Install Istio

Link to Istio install guide:    
[Installing istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/)    

> It is very important to make sure you install Istio **BEFORE**, you install NGINX Ingress Controller. This is to ensure that the istio sidecar is properly injected into the NGINX Ingress controller pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is crucial to make sure you install Istio **BEFORE** installing NGINX Ingress Controller. This ensures that the Istio sidecar is injected correctly into the NGINX Ingress controller pod.
```

> You can then install Istio by your preferred method (helm, operator etc.). Deploy Istio into your cluster. In this case, I ran the following command to install Istio into my cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can install Istio by your preferred method (helm, operator, etc.). In this case, I ran the following command to install Istio into my cluster:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: does this code block need a language, like "bash"?

Author: This should be ok.

istioctl install --set profile=minimal
```

We need to ensure that Istio injects sidecar proxies into our namespace for testing. To do so, we need to tell Istio what namespaces to inject sidecars into. We can do that with the following command:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```bash

```

kubectl label ns <namespace_specified> istio-injection=enabled
```
Before proceeding, and before installing NGINX Ingress Controller you need to tell Istio that it will be injecting sidecars with the NGINX Ingress controller pods as they are deployed.   

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash

```

kubectl label namespace nginx-ingress istio-injection=enabled
```
 

Using `kubectl`, we can see that the namespace for our demo (nginx-ingress) now has `istio-injection=enabled` specified:

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash

```

> Using kubectl we can see that the namespace for our demo (nginx-ingress) now has istio-injection=enabled specified:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `kubectl`, we can see that the namespace for our demo (nginx-ingress) now has `istio-injection=enabled` specified:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: add a language to the code block for syntax highlighting.

kubectl get namespacess -A --show-labels

default                Active   28h   <none>
istio-system           Active   24h   istio-injection=disabled
kube-node-lease        Active   28h   <none>
kube-public            Active   28h   <none>
kube-system            Active   28h   <none>
kubernetes-dashboard   Active   16h   <none>
local-path-storage     Active   28h   <none>
nginx-ingress          Active   27h   istio-injection=enabled
```

> After we have setup and configured Istio, we can then deploy NGINX Plus Ingress as well as our applications that will be part of the service mesh. Istio will now inject sidecar proxies based upon how we have configured Istio (namespace configuration).     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After we have set up and configured Istio, we can deploy NGINX Plus Ingress and our applications that will be part of the service mesh. Istio will now inject sidecar proxies based upon how we have configured Istio (namespace configuration).  
```

Now, our deployment will look like the following (with Envoy sidecar proxies).

> The image below is what NGINX Ingress and Istio deployment looks like:    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image below shows how an NGINX Ingress Controller and Istio deployment looks:    
```

{{< img src="./img/nginx-envoy.png" alt="NGINX with envoy sidecar." >}}    

## Install NGINX Ingress Controller  

> Once Istio is installed, can install NGINX Ingress Controller.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once Istio is installed, you can install NGINX Ingress Controller.

```

> Once istio is installed, we now are now going to install NGINX Ingress Controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once Istio is installed, can install NGINX Ingress Controller.
```

## Setting up NGINX Plus Ingress controller deployment for Istio.

> When deploying NGINX Plus Ingress Controller with Istio, you will need to modify your Depoloyment file to include the specific annotations needed to work with Istio. Those four specific lines are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deploying NGINX Plus Ingress Controller with Istio, you must modify your Deployment file to include the specific annotations required to work with Istio. Those four specific lines are:
```

        traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts: "80,443"    
        traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges: "10.90.0.0/16,10.45.0.0/16" 
        sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'true'
```

{{< img src="./img/nginx_istio_small.png" alt="NGINX Ingress pod with envoy sidecar." >}}

We can now see that after configuring Istio, an Istio sidecar proxy has been installed into the same pod as NGINX Ingress Controller. Now, there are two containers in the same pod for NGINX Ingress Controller: the NGINX Ingress controller container and the Istio sidecar proxy container.

```
kubectl get pods -A

NAMESPACE       NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system     coredns-854c77959c-h2vrq                  1/1     Running   0          60m
kube-system     metrics-server-86cbb8457f-fct86           1/1     Running   0          60m
kube-system     local-path-provisioner-5ff76fc89d-5hjbl   1/1     Running   0          60m
istio-system    istiod-7c9c9d46d4-qpgff                   1/1     Running   0          60m
nginx-ingress   nginx-ingress-5898f94c49-v4jrf            2/2     Running   1          41s
```
 

> Here is our VirtualServer configuration for Istio service mesh: (note `use-cluster-ip` and `requestHeaders`). These settings are required when using Istio service mesh.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is our VirtualServer configuration for Istio service mesh (note `use-cluster-ip` and `requestHeaders`). These settings are required when using Istio service mesh:

```

> Here is our VirtualServer configuration to use with Istio service mesh: (note `use-cluster-ip` and `requestHeaders`) which are require settings when using Istio service mesh.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is our VirtualServer configuration for Istio service mesh: (note `use-cluster-ip` and `requestHeaders`). These settings are required when using Istio service mesh.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1    
kind: VirtualServer    
metadata:    
  name: cafe    
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:    
  host: cafe.example.com    
  tls:    
    secret: cafe-secret    
  upstreams:    
  - name: tea    
    service: tea-svc    
    port: 80    
    use-cluster-ip: true
  - name: coffee    
    service: coffee-svc    
    port: 80    
    use-cluster-ip: true
  routes:    
  - path: /tea    
    action:
      proxy:
        upstream: tea
        requestHeaders:
          set:
          - name: Host
            value: tea-svc.nginx-ingress.svc.cluster.local
  - path: /coffee
    action:
      proxy:
        upstream: coffee
        requestHeaders:
          set:
          - name: Host
            value: coffee-svc.nginx-ingress.svc.cluster.local
```

With our new Host header control in v1.11, when VirtualServer is configured with `requestHeaders`, the value specified will be used and `proxy_set_header $host` will NOT be used.    

> The value of `requestHeaders` should be: `<service.namespace.svc.cluster.local>`. Adjust the value for your specific enviornment.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value of `requestHeaders` should be: `<service.namespace.svc.cluster.local>`. Adjust the value for your specific environment.   

```

> The value of `requestHeaders` should be: <service.namespace.svc.cluster.local>. Adjust to meet your specific enviornment.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The value of `requestHeaders` should be: `<service.namespace.svc.cluster.local>`. Adjust the value for your specific enviornment.   
```

When `use-cluster-ip` is set to `true`, NGINX forwards requests to the service IP. In our example above, that would be `tea-svc` and `coffee-svc`.

Here is a simple example of what your `upstream` section will look like now in `virtualServer/virtualServerRoute`:

```yaml
upstreams:
  - name: tea
    service: tea-svc
    port: 80
    use-cluster-ip: true
  - name: coffee
    service: coffee-svc
    port: 80
    use-cluster-ip: true
```

> Now NGINX Ingress `upstreams` will be populated with the `Service/cluster IP`. In the example above, the service/cluster IPs for `tea-svc` and `coffee-svc` will be added to the `upstream` configuration as the `server` addresses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress `upstreams` will be populated with the `Service/cluster IP`. In the example above, the service/cluster IPs for `tea-svc` and `coffee-svc` will be added to the `upstream` configuration as the `server` addresses.

```

Now we can test our NGINX Ingress with Istio setup with a simple curl request to our application.    

```bash
curl -kI https://cafe.example.com/coffee     

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.19.5
Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2021 18:47:21 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 159
Connection: keep-alive
expires: Thu, 25 Mar 2021 18:47:20 GMT
cache-control: no-cache
x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 0
x-envoy-decorator-operation: coffee-svc.nginx-ingress.svc.cluster.local:80/*
```

We can see in the above output that our curl request is sent and received by NGINX Ingress Controller. We can see that the envoy sidecar proxy sends the request to the service IP to the application (coffee). The full request is complete and correct. Now we have a full working NGINX+ Ingress with Istio as the sidecar proxies are deployed.

> For disabling/removing sidecar proxies and autoinjection:

Reviewer 3: is this a section or is this missing steps right under?  This is followed with "To remove label from the namespace:"

Author: This is to show that the envoy sidecar proxy is picking up the traffic that is being passed to it by NGINX Ingress controller.
The next section would be a "clean up" phase to remove istio as needed.

> We can see in the above output, our curl request is sent and received by NGINX Ingress. We can see that the envoy sidecar proxy then sends the request to the service IP to the application (coffee), with the full request being complete and correct. Now we have a full working NGINX+ Ingress with Istio as the sidecar proxies are deployed.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see in the above output that our curl request is sent and received by NGINX Ingress Controller. We can see that the envoy sidecar proxy sends the request to the service IP to the application (coffee). The full request is complete and correct. Now we have a full working NGINX+ Ingress with Istio as the sidecar proxies are deployed.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "NGINX+ Ingress" means in this sentence? NGINX Plus? If that's the case, we need to write out "NGINX Plus" -- our style guide says we're not allowed to write "NGINX+" in docs.

 

To remove label from the namespace:

```bash
kubectl lable ns default istio-injection-
```

## Additional Technical information details

> By default for NGINX Ingress Controller, we populate the upstream server addresses with the endpoint IPs of the pods.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, for NGINX Ingress Controller, we populate the upstream server addresses with the endpoint IPs of the pods.   

```

When using the new `use-cluster-ip` feature, we will no populate the upstream with the `service` IP address, instead of the endpoint IP addresses.   

> In 1.11 release, NGINX Ingress controller will only send one host header, depending on how you configure Ingress. By default NGINX Ingress Controller will send `proxy_set_header $host`. If Ingress has been configured with `action.proxy.requestHeaders` this ensures that only one set of headers will be sent to the upstream server. In summary, by setting `action.proxy.requestHeaders` in the `VirtualServer` CRD, NGINX Ingress will only send the specified headers that have been defined.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the 1.11 release, NGINX Ingress controller will only send one host header, depending on how you configure Ingress. By default NGINX Ingress Controller will send `proxy_set_header $host`. If Ingress has been configured with `action.proxy.requestHeaders` this ensures that only one set of headers will be sent to the upstream server. In summary, by setting `action.proxy.requestHeaders` in the `VirtualServer` CRD, NGINX Ingress will only send the specified headers that have been defined.    

```

Here is the output of `nginx -T` to show our upstreams and proxy_set_header values.    

> The server IP address the upstream is the IP address of the service for that given application.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The server IP address the upstream is the IP address of the service for that given application.   

```
Can't'make sense of this sentence.

---
title: NGINX Ingress Controller and Istio Service Mesh
description: |
  Use NGINX Ingress Controller with Istio Service Mesh.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-889"
---

> You can use NGINX Ingress Controller fpr applications that are running inside an Istio service mesh. This allows to continue using the advanced capabilities that NGINX Ingress Controleler in a istio service mesh environments without resorting to any workarounds. 

Reviewer: NGINX Ingress Controller can be used as the Ingress gateway for Istio Service Mesh.  This tutorial covers how to implement a topology that places the power and wide capabilities of the NGINX Ingress Controller in front of Istio Service Mesh.

> Prior to 1.11 release, a configuration below would send two host headers to the backend; 

Reviewer: This section does not fit well here.
The explanation of the prior release does not relate to the conversation.
It might be useful at the end for additional technical depth.
The beginning should focus on the what and why.

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: foo 
spec:
  host: foo.example.com
  upstreams:
  - name: foo
    port: 8080
    service: backend-svc
  routes:
  - path: "/"
    action:
      proxy:
        upstream: foo
        requestHeaders:
          set:
          - name: Host
            value: bar.example.com
```

> In 1.11 release, NGINX Ingress controller will only send one host header, depending on how you configure Ingress. By default NGINX Ingress Controller will send `proxy_set_header $host`. If Ingress has been configured with `requestHeaders` per the above example, this ensures that only one set of headers will be sent to the upstream server. In short, by setting `action-proxy-requestHeaders` in the `VirtualServer` CRD, NGINX Ingress will only send the specified hears that have been defined.    

Reviewer: Above comment also applies here.

> Here is a standard deployment of NGINX Ingress controller without any service mesh deployed:    

Reviewer: This is where the tutorial should begin after the introduction.

{{< img src="./img/nginx_plain.png" alt="NGINX stand alone." >}}

When deploying NGINX Ingress controller with Istio, you must deploy the envoy sidecar proxy into the NGINX Ingress controller pod.   
The image below is what NGINX Ingress and Istio deployment looks like:    

{{< img src="./img/nginx-envoy.png" alt="NGINX with envoy sidecar." >}}    

> By default for NGINX Ingress Controller, we populate the upstream server addresses with the endpoint IPs of the pods. NGINX Ingress Controller 1.11 release now supports the ability to configure NGINX Ingress CRDs (virtualServer/virtualServerRoute)to use the `service/cluster IP`. Using this flag,  NGINX Ingress will generate the .conf with the `service/cluster IP` of the service in the `upstreams/servers` section, instead of pod endpoint IPs of the pods.    

Reviewer: This depth of explanation is not relevant to achieving the topology.
The important bit is that a very specific setting need to be applied to the upstream configuration for compatibility with Istio.

> To enable NGINX Ingress to route to the `Service IP`, we are going to use a new feature released in 1.11; [use-cluster-ip](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources/#upstream).   

Reviewer: Again.  the feature specific release comment is not relevant.  It should be mentioned as part of the above paragraph.

```yaml
traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts: ""
traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts: "80,443" 
traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges: "substitute_for_correct_subnet_range"
sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'true'
```

Additional information on the above annotations can be found on Istios website.
[Istio Service Mesh Annotations](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/annotations/)

Your updated nginx-plus-ingress.yaml file will look something like this with the added annotations:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1    
kind: Deployment    
metadata:    
  name: nginx-ingress    
  namespace: nginx-ingress    
spec:    
  replicas: 1    
  selector:    
    matchLabels:    
      app: nginx-ingress    
  template:    
    metadata:    
      labels:    
        app: nginx-ingress    
      annotations:    
        traffic.sidecar.istio.io/includeInboundPorts: ""    
        traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeInboundPorts: "80,443"    
        traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges: "10.90.0.0/16,10.45.0.0/16" 
        sidecar.istio.io/inject: 'true'
```

> ## Install Istio

Reviewer: I believe that it was explained to me that Istio needs to be installed first, prior to NIC.
If that is the case, then the walkthrough should begin with "ensure that Istio is installed first" and save to comment about NIC for when we reach needing to apply those settings in the workflow.

Reviewer: Phrased differently.  The current flow is backward.

> Link to Istio install guide:    

Reviewer: The way this is presented is awkward.

    zone vs_nginx-ingress_cafe_coffee 256k;
    random two least_conn;
    server 10.96.252.249:80 max_fails=1 fail_timeout=10s max_conns=0;
}

server {
    listen 80;
        
    location /tea {

        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection $vs_connection_header;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Port $server_port;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
            
        proxy_set_header Host "tea-svc.nginx-ingress.svc.cluster.local";
    }
    
    location /coffee {
 
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection $vs_connection_header;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Port $server_port;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
            
        proxy_set_header Host "coffee-svc.nginx-ingress.svc.cluster.local";
    }   
}
```

> Notice the abscence of `proxy_set_header $host`. This is because we are using `action-proxy-requestHeaders` option to specify what headers we want to pass to Istio sidecar. This is required by Istio.

Reviewer: Why do we need to describe this?
If there are settings specific to success with Istio, then we should briefly mention that at the beginning.

This might be useful detail for a troubleshooting section if it relates to things not functioning or functioning abnormally.

Author: We do not. It is more of what happens under the hood. Troubelshooting might make more sense.
